# 5 Best Practices for Container Image Security

In this post, I wanted to identify a few high-level security tips and best practices to consider when working with container images. Before diving into that, a very brief summary on the advantages of **containers**: Containers help organizations become more consistent, agile, and secure. These advantages are highlighted by allowing developers select the tools and environments that best suit their projects and applications. For operations teams, they now can focus on delivering these applications in a consistent and reliable way across multiple environments. Overall, these lead to faster/easier development and deployment, improving quality of code and release, thus decreasing costs and increasing customer satisfaction.

Now that we are clear on some of the high-level advantages, I will detail what a **container image** is. A container image is a collection of data that includes all files, software packages, and metadata needed to create a running instance of a container. In essence, an image is a template from which a container can be instantiated. Images are immutable, meaning, once they’ve been built, they cannot be changed. If someone were to make a change, a new image would be built as a result.

### Use images from trusted sources

Individuals and organizations should only work with images from trusted sources. Public images in Docker Hub may contain vulnerable software components, misconfiurations, and other security risks. Also, these images can be updated at any time. Developers relying on images from unreliable sources run the inherent risk of exposing their products, environments, and customers to any risks container within these artifacts. 

Docker provided a solution to this trust principle by implementing a feature known as [Docker Content Trust](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/trust/content_trust/). Docker Content Trust makes it possible to verify the publisher of Docker images. With Docker Content Trust, image publishers can sign their images with digital signatures and image users can ensure that the images they use are signed. 